doc-src/INSTALL_MAC.rst, before:

Mac OSX
=======

The easiest way to use psignifit is to use the `Enthought Python Distribution <http://www.enthought.com/products/epd.php>`_.
In that case, you might want to download one of the 'swigged' archives from:

`Psignifit3 Downloads <http://sourceforge.net/.projects/psignifit/files/>`_

(The 'swigged' archives are the ones with the string 'swigged' in the filename)

Extract the archive to a folder. Navigate to this folder from the command line and install::

    unzip psignifit3.0_beta_swigged_24-03-2011.zip
    cd psignifit3.0_beta_swigged_24-03-2011
    python setup.py install


Installing the command line interface
-------------------------------------

Download psignifit from `sourceforge <http://sourceforge.net/projects/psignifit/files/>`_ and
extract the compressed file to a folder in your home directory. Navigate into the folder.
You have two installation options. By default, the command line interface will be installed to a
folder called ``bin`` in your home directory. You can change this behavior by editing the
``Makefile``. At the beginning of the ``Makefile``, you find a line::

    CLI_INSTALL=$(HOME)/bin

replace this by e.g. ``/usr/bin/`` for system wide installation.

Once you have the Makefile in your desired shape type::

    make cli-install

If the installation directory is not on your system search path, you may have to add it.
To do so, add::

    export PATH=$PATH:$HOME/bin

to your ``.bashrc`` (if you use bash). If you use zsh, the same line should be in your
``.zshrc.local`` file.

Now, you should be able to call::

    psignifit-mcmc -h
    psignifit-diagnostics -h
    psignifit-bootstrap -h
    psignifit-mapestimate -h

And see some usage messages after each call.


Testing your installation
=========================

To check whether your installation has been successful and pypsignifit is working properly, you can call::

    make test

This will call the standard test suite for psignifit.

Commit message:

[DOC]added gcc instructions and some instructions for matlab users

doc-src/INSTALL_MAC.rst, after:

Mac OSX
=======

This is the installation instruction for the python version, not the matlab version.

The easiest way to use psignifit is to use the `Enthought Python Distribution <http://www.enthought.com/products/epd.php>`_.
You will also need to download gcc which you can get through the Apple Developer Tools for which you have to get a developer account (you can use your normal apple account for this and it's free) which will allow you to access the developer tools where you want to download Xcode (this is a very large file but as far as we know is the only way of downloading gcc).

You will want to download one of the 'swigged' psignifit archives from:

`Psignifit3 Downloads <http://sourceforge.net/.projects/psignifit/files/>`_

(The 'swigged' archives are the ones with the string 'swigged' in the filename)

Extract the archive to a folder. Navigate to this folder from the command line and install::

    unzip psignifit3.0_beta_swigged_24-03-2011.zip
    cd psignifit3.0_beta_swigged_24-03-2011
    python setup.py install


Installing the command line interface
-------------------------------------

Download psignifit from `sourceforge <http://sourceforge.net/projects/psignifit/files/>`_ and
extract the compressed file to a folder in your home directory. Navigate into the folder.
You have two installation options. By default, the command line interface will be installed to a
folder called ``bin`` in your home directory. You can change this behavior by editing the
``Makefile``. At the beginning of the ``Makefile``, you find a line::

    CLI_INSTALL=$(HOME)/bin

replace this by e.g. ``/usr/bin/`` for system wide installation.

Once you have the Makefile in your desired shape type::

    make cli-install

If the installation directory is not on your system search path, you may have to add it.
To do so, add::

    export PATH=$PATH:$HOME/bin

to your ``.bashrc`` (if you use bash). If you use zsh, the same line should be in your
``.zshrc.local`` file.

Now, you should be able to call::

    psignifit-mcmc -h
    psignifit-diagnostics -h
    psignifit-bootstrap -h
    psignifit-mapestimate -h

And see some usage messages after each call.


Testing your installation
=========================

To check whether your installation has been successful and pypsignifit is working properly, you can call::

    make test

This will call the standard test suite for psignifit.
