doc-src/MODELSPECIFICATION.rst, before:

==================================================
Specification of Models for Psychometric functions
==================================================

Typically, we want to use psignifit to fit data from a psychophysical experiment. These data
can come from different experimental designs and can display different shapes. These points are
not directly dependent on the actual fitting process.

Specifiing the experimental design
==================================

If nothing else is requested, psignifit will assume that the data come from a 2 alternatives
forced choice experiment. That means, that on each trial two stimuli were presented and the
observer knows that one and only one of these stimuli was the target stimulus. Although this
design has considerable theoretical advantages [Green_and_Swets_1966]_ there might be practical
reasons to collect data in another way. One modification might be in showing more than two
stimuli. In this case, you should create your Inference object with the keyword 'nafc' set
to the number of stimulus alternatives that were presented. Setting the keyword 'nafc' to
a value of 2 or larger results in a fixed guessing rate of 1/nafc. These designs would all
inherit most of the theoretical advantages from the 2 alternatives forced choice experiment
and they would all be called forced choice experiments (with 4 alternatives, we would call
it a four alternatives forces choice experiment for example).

Another modification of the standard acquisition procedure could be to present only one
stimulus per trial. The observers might then have to indicate whether the target stimulus
was presented or not (typically called yes-no task). In some discrimination experiments,
the observers have to indicate whether a target stimulus was to the left or the right of
a mark or whether it was presented for a longer or shorter time than a reference stimulus.
In all these experiments we will record which response an observer chose and we will then
fit the number of "stimulus present", "stimulus left", "stimulus longer" responses (or
whatever is suitable in the present context). We will summarize these designs as "yes-no
designs" although the term yes-no is typically restricted to detection like tasks. The
crucial difference between yes-no designs and forced choice designs for fitting
psychometric functions is that yes-no designs allow for arbitrarily "guessing" rates.
For instance, in a detection task, the observer might be very conservative and virtually
never report the presence of a target for low stimulus intensities. Or the observer might
always respond "stimulus left" if the stimulus is presented sufficiently for to the left
of a mark. In all these situations, the lower asymptote of the psychometric function will
be a free parameter. As in all these situations only one stimulus is presented, we can
make the lower asymptote of the psychometric function a free parameter by setting the
keyword 'nafc' to 1.

A note on yes-no experiments on detection
-----------------------------------------

In a detection experiment, we typically have two types of trials. In one case a target
stimulus is presented, in the other case, no target stimulus is presented. In terms of signal
detection theory, these two cases are called "signal+noise" and "noise only". The observer
responds to these two cases with either "yes, a signal was present" or "no, only noise
was presented". This results in four different outcomes on each trial: hits (the observer
correctly reports the presence of a signal), false alarms (the observer reports a signal
although "noise only" was presented), misses (the observer reports no signal
although a signal was presented), and correct rejections (the observer correctly reports
the absence of a signal). These different experimental outcomes are discussed in large detail
in standard books on signal detection theory [Green_and_Swets_1966]_. What matters with respect
to fitting psychometric functions is that depending on the strategy, both, hit rate as well
as the correct response rate might change. So which of these two should be fitted with a
psychometric function? There are two general objectives that an optimal observer could
follow in a yes-no task.

1. maximize the hit rate while keeping a fixed false alarm rate. In this case, we would
   like to fit the hit rate with a psychometric function (the false alarm rate is
   constant anyhow). Thus, if we want to fit the hit rate with a psychometric function,
   we should check that the observers maintained a more of less fixed false alarm
   rate. A future release of psignifit will contain more formal tools for this check.
2. maximize the number of correct responses. In this case, we would like to fit
   the correct response rate with a psychometric function. To check that an observer
   really uses this strategy, we should check that the false alarm rate decreases with
   the hit rate.

Signal detection theory also offers a number of criterion free discriminability parameters,
like area under the ROC curve and the famous d' index. However, these indices can not generally
be assumed to have binomial variance (or anything similar to that). Therefore, psignifit
does not attempt to fit such data.

Specifiing the shape of the psychometric function
=================================================

A variety of different parametric shapes for psychometric functions have been used. In probit
analysis for instance, the data are essentially fit by a cumulative gaussian; visual contrast
detection data have been reported to be well fit by a weibull distribution function. Fitting
visual contrast detection with a weibull function is also theoretically appealing because it
corresponds to the Quick pooling model ([Graham_1989]_ p. 165).

Psignifit supports a relatively large number of psychometric function shapes. These are selected
using two keywords: 'sigmoid' and 'core'. To understand the meaning of these two keywords, let
us take a look at the model that psignifit tries to fit:

Psi ( x; theta ) = gamma + (1-gamma-lambda) F ( x; alpha, beta ), theta = (alpha,beta,lambda,gamma).

Here, theta is a parameter vector (in forced choice tasks gamma is fixed). The critical term
that determines the shape of the psychometric function is F ( x; alpha, beta ). We decompose
F in two functions, a scalar function f:R->R and a higherdimensional function g:R^3->R, such that

F ( x; alpha, beta) := f ( g ( x, alpha, beta ) ).

In many cases (but not all), g will be a simple linear transformation, while f will inject a
nonlinearity. We will call f the 'sigmoid' and g the 'core'. The following two sections
describe the sigmoids and cores in more detail. Then finally, there is a section about
common combinations of sigmoids and cores.

Valid sigmoids
--------------

.. image:: sigmoids.png

Six different sigmoids can be selected. All of them correspond to cumulative distributions
functions.

logistic
    the logistic function f(x) = 1./(1+exp(-x)). This sigmoid is symmetric with respect to
    the point (0,0.5).
gauss
    the cumulative distribution function of the standard normal distribution. This function
    is symmetric to the point (0,0.5), too. Combined with one of the linear cores, selecting
    this sigmoid roughly corresponds to probit analysis (although typically, the confidence
    intervals will differ).
cauchy
    the cumulative distribution of the cauchy distribution (i.e. the t-distribution with
    1 degree of freedom). this sigmoid is symmetric with respect to the point (0,0.5).
    Because the cauchy distribution is a heavy tailed distribution, this sigmoid is less
    sensitive to lapses an inaccuracies in at extreme x values. Here, f(x) = atan(x)/pi + 0.5.
gumbel_l or lgumbel
    the cumulative distribution function of the left gumbel. This function is not symmetric:
    it first increases slowly for negative values and then approaches 1 rather quickly. The
    left gumbel can be used to define a left weibull if combined with a proper (nonlinear)
    core. However, also with a linear core, the left gumbel may be a reasonable choice. Here,
    f(x) = 1-exp(-exp(x)).
gumbel_r or rgumbel
    the cumulative distribution function of the right gumbel. Actually, this is not the
    classical gumbel distribution but its reverse, that corresponds to replacing x by -x in
    the left gumbel, thus f(x) = exp(-exp(-x).
exp
    the sixth sigmoid is the cumulative distribution function of the exponential distribution.
    That is f(x) = 1-exp(-x) if x > 0, and f(x) = 0 else. This function is clearly not
    symmetric.

Valid cores
-----------

.. image:: cores.png

There are also six different cores to be selected. The first three are simply linear
transformations of the stimulus intensities. The remaining three cores are nonlinear
transformations. Typically, these will be needed to define a weibull function.

ab
    the ab-core corresponds to the transformation that transforms an arbitrary normal
    distribution to the standard normal distribution. It is given by g(x,a,b) = (x-a)/b.
    For all symmetric sigmoids, this corresponds to the classical psignifit parameterization.
mw
    the mw-core is similar to the ab-core in that it is a linear transformation, too.
    However, the parameters now have a useful meaning. The first parameter is the "midpoint"
    of the combination f°g (i.e. the threshold), while the second parameter is the "width"
    of the interval over which the psychometric function is rising. What exactly "rising"
    means in this context is given by an additional parameter such that selection of
    an mw core is performed using a keyword like 'mw0.1' or mw0.05'. For an 'mw0.1' core,
    the width parameter is defined as the width of the interval over which the function
    f°g rises from 0.1 to 0.9. In general, the width of an 'mwalpha' core is the width of
    the interval over which the function f°g rises from alpha to 1-alpha. Obviously w depends
    on the sigmoid. However, in general the mw-core has a form g(x,m,w) = z0/w * (x-m) + z1,
    with z0,z1 derived from the shape of f.
linear
    another linear transformation of the input intensity: here, we simply have g(x,a,b) = a*x+b.
    Although this is the most direct way to implement an (affine) linear transform of the
    input it is at the same time the least intepretable. Therefore, we recommend to avoid
    this core.
log
    similar to the linear core but on logarithmic coordinates. This is particularly useful
    for contrast detection data. The weibull function that is commonly used to fit contrast
    detection data is obtained if the gumbel_l sigmoid is used with the log core. The log core
    is given by g(x,a,b) = a*log(x)+b
weibull
    the weibull core is at the heart very similar to the log core. However, in contrast to the
    log core, the weibull core uses more meaningful parameters: the first parameter can be
    interpreted as some sort of "midpoint" (i.e. threshold) and the second parameter gives
    the slope at the midpoint of the weibull that results with a gumbel_l sigmoid. The weibull
    core is g(x,m,s) = 2/log(2)*m*s*(x-m)+log(log(2)).
poly
    While the weibull and the log core perform at the heart a fit on a logarithmic axis, this
    core performs something clearly different: g(x,a,b) = (x/a)^b. In combination with a exp
    sigmoid, this gives the parameterization used in the classical psignifit version.

Combining sigmoids and cores
----------------------------

As already mentioned above, combinations of 'sigmoid' and 'core' determine the shape of the nonlinear
function F( x; alpha, beta ). There are some shapes that are particularly interesting in psychophysical
applications. This section explains how to obtain these typical shapes.

Logistic function
.................

In this case, we combine the 'logistic' sigmoid with one of the linear cores (ab,mw,linear). Depending
on the core used, this results in different parameterizations.

logistic + ab
    This is the standard parameterization of the old psignifit version that was based on bootstrapping.
    Here we obtain:

    F ( x; alpha, beta ) = 1/(1+exp( -(x-alpha)/beta ) )

    Thus, alpha can be interpreted as the 75% threshold and beta as a scaling factor that is inversely
    related to the slope of the psychometric function
logistic + mw
    This parameterization was used in [Kuss_et_al_2005]_ for bayesian inference on psychometric functions.
    It reads:

    F ( x; m, w ) = 1/(1+exp( - z(alpha)/w * (x-m) ) ),

    where z(alpha) = 2*ln(1/alpha -1). This allows m to be interpreted as the 75% threshold and w as the
    width of the interval in which F(x;m,w) rises from alpha to 1-alpha. A typical choice for alpha is 0.1.
logistic + linear
    This parameterization corresponds to the classical parameterization used in the literature about
    generalized linear models. Here, the psychometric function is modeled as

    F ( x; a, b ) = 1/(1+exp( - (a*x + b) ) ).

    This parameterization does not allow a psychophysically meaningful interpretation of the parameters.

Cumulative Gaussian
...................

The cumulative gaussian is obtained by combining the gauss sigmoid with one of the linear cores (ab,mw,linear).
The parameterizations are precisely the same as for the logistic function with one exception:
The scaling factor z(alpha) for the mw parameterization is z(alpha) = invPhi(1-alpha)-invPhi(alpha), where invPhi
is the inverse of the the cumulative gaussian.

Cumulative Gumbel
.................

Also for the cumulative Gumbel sigmoids, the parameterizations are similar to the logistic function. However,
the Gumbel distribution is skewed. This implies that the alpha parameter of the ab parameterization can
*not* be interpreted as a 75% threshold. For the mw parameterization this is solved in a different way.
The lgumbel + mw function is parameterized as follows:

F ( x; m, w ) = 1-exp(-exp( (z(alpha)-z(1-alpha))/w * (x-m) + z(0.5) ) ),

where z(alpha) = ln(-ln(alpha)).

Weibull
.......

There are a number of ways to parameterize the Weibull function. 

exp + poly
    The classical way is probably

    F ( x; alpha, beta ) = 1-exp ( - (x/alpha)^beta ),

    which is implemented using the combination of an exp-sigmoid and a poly-core.
gumbel + weibull
    The Weibull function is equivalent to a Gumbel sigmoid on logarithmic coordinates. Thus,
    [Kuss_et_al_2005]_ suggested a parameterization in terms of the 75% threshold m and the slope
    at the threshold s. This results in the following equivalent form

    F ( x; m, s ) = 1-exp(-exp( 2*s*m/ln(2) * (ln(x) - ln(m)) + ln(ln(2)) )).

gumbel + log
    As the Weibull is a Gumbel fitted on log coordinates, a Weibull can also be obtained
    using a gumbel sigmoid and the log-core, which results in the following parameterization

    F ( x; a, b ) = 1-exp(-exp( a*ln(x) + b ) ).



References
==========

.. [Green_and_Swets_1966] Green, DM and Swets, JA (1966): Signal Detection Theory and
    Psychophysics. New York: Wiley.
.. [Graham_1989] Graham, NVS (1989): Visual Pattern Analyzers. New York: Oxford University.
.. [Kuss_et_al_2005] Kuss, M and Jäkel, F and Wichmann, FA: Bayesian inference for psychometric functions
    Journal of Vision, 5, 478-492.

Commit message:

py[DOC] documentation also includes the fact that for nafc=1 an additional parameter is fitted

doc-src/MODELSPECIFICATION.rst, after:

==================================================
Specification of Models for Psychometric functions
==================================================

Typically, we want to use psignifit to fit data from a psychophysical experiment. These data
can come from different experimental designs and can display different shapes. These points are
not directly dependent on the actual fitting process.

Specifiing the experimental design
==================================

If nothing else is requested, psignifit will assume that the data come from a 2 alternatives
forced choice experiment. That means, that on each trial two stimuli were presented and the
observer knows that one and only one of these stimuli was the target stimulus. Although this
design has considerable theoretical advantages [Green_and_Swets_1966]_ there might be practical
reasons to collect data in another way. One modification might be in showing more than two
stimuli. In this case, you should create your Inference object with the keyword 'nafc' set
to the number of stimulus alternatives that were presented. Setting the keyword 'nafc' to
a value of 2 or larger results in a fixed guessing rate of 1/nafc. These designs would all
inherit most of the theoretical advantages from the 2 alternatives forced choice experiment
and they would all be called forced choice experiments (with 4 alternatives, we would call
it a four alternatives forces choice experiment for example).

Another modification of the standard acquisition procedure could be to present only one
stimulus per trial. The observers might then have to indicate whether the target stimulus
was presented or not (typically called yes-no task). In some discrimination experiments,
the observers have to indicate whether a target stimulus was to the left or the right of
a mark or whether it was presented for a longer or shorter time than a reference stimulus.
In all these experiments we will record which response an observer chose and we will then
fit the number of "stimulus present", "stimulus left", "stimulus longer" responses (or
whatever is suitable in the present context). We will summarize these designs as "yes-no
designs" although the term yes-no is typically restricted to detection like tasks. The
crucial difference between yes-no designs and forced choice designs for fitting
psychometric functions is that yes-no designs allow for arbitrarily "guessing" rates.
For instance, in a detection task, the observer might be very conservative and virtually
never report the presence of a target for low stimulus intensities. Or the observer might
always respond "stimulus left" if the stimulus is presented sufficiently for to the left
of a mark. In all these situations, the lower asymptote of the psychometric function will
be a free parameter. As in all these situations only one stimulus is presented, we can
make the lower asymptote of the psychometric function a free parameter by setting the
keyword 'nafc' to 1. Note that in this case you also need to specify priors for four parameters
instead of the three parameters in an nAFC experiment.

A note on yes-no experiments on detection
-----------------------------------------

In a detection experiment, we typically have two types of trials. In one case a target
stimulus is presented, in the other case, no target stimulus is presented. In terms of signal
detection theory, these two cases are called "signal+noise" and "noise only". The observer
responds to these two cases with either "yes, a signal was present" or "no, only noise
was presented". This results in four different outcomes on each trial: hits (the observer
correctly reports the presence of a signal), false alarms (the observer reports a signal
although "noise only" was presented), misses (the observer reports no signal
although a signal was presented), and correct rejections (the observer correctly reports
the absence of a signal). These different experimental outcomes are discussed in large detail
in standard books on signal detection theory [Green_and_Swets_1966]_. What matters with respect
to fitting psychometric functions is that depending on the strategy, both, hit rate as well
as the correct response rate might change. So which of these two should be fitted with a
psychometric function? There are two general objectives that an optimal observer could
follow in a yes-no task.

1. maximize the hit rate while keeping a fixed false alarm rate. In this case, we would
   like to fit the hit rate with a psychometric function (the false alarm rate is
   constant anyhow). Thus, if we want to fit the hit rate with a psychometric function,
   we should check that the observers maintained a more of less fixed false alarm
   rate. A future release of psignifit will contain more formal tools for this check.
2. maximize the number of correct responses. In this case, we would like to fit
   the correct response rate with a psychometric function. To check that an observer
   really uses this strategy, we should check that the false alarm rate decreases with
   the hit rate.

Signal detection theory also offers a number of criterion free discriminability parameters,
like area under the ROC curve and the famous d' index. However, these indices can not generally
be assumed to have binomial variance (or anything similar to that). Therefore, psignifit
does not attempt to fit such data.

Specifiing the shape of the psychometric function
=================================================

A variety of different parametric shapes for psychometric functions have been used. In probit
analysis for instance, the data are essentially fit by a cumulative gaussian; visual contrast
detection data have been reported to be well fit by a weibull distribution function. Fitting
visual contrast detection with a weibull function is also theoretically appealing because it
corresponds to the Quick pooling model ([Graham_1989]_ p. 165).

Psignifit supports a relatively large number of psychometric function shapes. These are selected
using two keywords: 'sigmoid' and 'core'. To understand the meaning of these two keywords, let
us take a look at the model that psignifit tries to fit:

Psi ( x; theta ) = gamma + (1-gamma-lambda) F ( x; alpha, beta ), theta = (alpha,beta,lambda,gamma).

Here, theta is a parameter vector (in forced choice tasks gamma is fixed). The critical term
that determines the shape of the psychometric function is F ( x; alpha, beta ). We decompose
F in two functions, a scalar function f:R->R and a higherdimensional function g:R^3->R, such that

F ( x; alpha, beta) := f ( g ( x, alpha, beta ) ).

In many cases (but not all), g will be a simple linear transformation, while f will inject a
nonlinearity. We will call f the 'sigmoid' and g the 'core'. The following two sections
describe the sigmoids and cores in more detail. Then finally, there is a section about
common combinations of sigmoids and cores.

Valid sigmoids
--------------

.. image:: sigmoids.png

Six different sigmoids can be selected. All of them correspond to cumulative distributions
functions.

logistic
    the logistic function f(x) = 1./(1+exp(-x)). This sigmoid is symmetric with respect to
    the point (0,0.5).
gauss
    the cumulative distribution function of the standard normal distribution. This function
    is symmetric to the point (0,0.5), too. Combined with one of the linear cores, selecting
    this sigmoid roughly corresponds to probit analysis (although typically, the confidence
    intervals will differ).
cauchy
    the cumulative distribution of the cauchy distribution (i.e. the t-distribution with
    1 degree of freedom). this sigmoid is symmetric with respect to the point (0,0.5).
    Because the cauchy distribution is a heavy tailed distribution, this sigmoid is less
    sensitive to lapses an inaccuracies in at extreme x values. Here, f(x) = atan(x)/pi + 0.5.
gumbel_l or lgumbel
    the cumulative distribution function of the left gumbel. This function is not symmetric:
    it first increases slowly for negative values and then approaches 1 rather quickly. The
    left gumbel can be used to define a left weibull if combined with a proper (nonlinear)
    core. However, also with a linear core, the left gumbel may be a reasonable choice. Here,
    f(x) = 1-exp(-exp(x)).
gumbel_r or rgumbel
    the cumulative distribution function of the right gumbel. Actually, this is not the
    classical gumbel distribution but its reverse, that corresponds to replacing x by -x in
    the left gumbel, thus f(x) = exp(-exp(-x).
exp
    the sixth sigmoid is the cumulative distribution function of the exponential distribution.
    That is f(x) = 1-exp(-x) if x > 0, and f(x) = 0 else. This function is clearly not
    symmetric.

Valid cores
-----------

.. image:: cores.png

There are also six different cores to be selected. The first three are simply linear
transformations of the stimulus intensities. The remaining three cores are nonlinear
transformations. Typically, these will be needed to define a weibull function.

ab
    the ab-core corresponds to the transformation that transforms an arbitrary normal
    distribution to the standard normal distribution. It is given by g(x,a,b) = (x-a)/b.
    For all symmetric sigmoids, this corresponds to the classical psignifit parameterization.
mw
    the mw-core is similar to the ab-core in that it is a linear transformation, too.
    However, the parameters now have a useful meaning. The first parameter is the "midpoint"
    of the combination f°g (i.e. the threshold), while the second parameter is the "width"
    of the interval over which the psychometric function is rising. What exactly "rising"
    means in this context is given by an additional parameter such that selection of
    an mw core is performed using a keyword like 'mw0.1' or mw0.05'. For an 'mw0.1' core,
    the width parameter is defined as the width of the interval over which the function
    f°g rises from 0.1 to 0.9. In general, the width of an 'mwalpha' core is the width of
    the interval over which the function f°g rises from alpha to 1-alpha. Obviously w depends
    on the sigmoid. However, in general the mw-core has a form g(x,m,w) = z0/w * (x-m) + z1,
    with z0,z1 derived from the shape of f.
linear
    another linear transformation of the input intensity: here, we simply have g(x,a,b) = a*x+b.
    Although this is the most direct way to implement an (affine) linear transform of the
    input it is at the same time the least intepretable. Therefore, we recommend to avoid
    this core.
log
    similar to the linear core but on logarithmic coordinates. This is particularly useful
    for contrast detection data. The weibull function that is commonly used to fit contrast
    detection data is obtained if the gumbel_l sigmoid is used with the log core. The log core
    is given by g(x,a,b) = a*log(x)+b
weibull
    the weibull core is at the heart very similar to the log core. However, in contrast to the
    log core, the weibull core uses more meaningful parameters: the first parameter can be
    interpreted as some sort of "midpoint" (i.e. threshold) and the second parameter gives
    the slope at the midpoint of the weibull that results with a gumbel_l sigmoid. The weibull
    core is g(x,m,s) = 2/log(2)*m*s*(x-m)+log(log(2)).
poly
    While the weibull and the log core perform at the heart a fit on a logarithmic axis, this
    core performs something clearly different: g(x,a,b) = (x/a)^b. In combination with a exp
    sigmoid, this gives the parameterization used in the classical psignifit version.

Combining sigmoids and cores
----------------------------

As already mentioned above, combinations of 'sigmoid' and 'core' determine the shape of the nonlinear
function F( x; alpha, beta ). There are some shapes that are particularly interesting in psychophysical
applications. This section explains how to obtain these typical shapes.

Logistic function
.................

In this case, we combine the 'logistic' sigmoid with one of the linear cores (ab,mw,linear). Depending
on the core used, this results in different parameterizations.

logistic + ab
    This is the standard parameterization of the old psignifit version that was based on bootstrapping.
    Here we obtain:

    F ( x; alpha, beta ) = 1/(1+exp( -(x-alpha)/beta ) )

    Thus, alpha can be interpreted as the 75% threshold and beta as a scaling factor that is inversely
    related to the slope of the psychometric function
logistic + mw
    This parameterization was used in [Kuss_et_al_2005]_ for bayesian inference on psychometric functions.
    It reads:

    F ( x; m, w ) = 1/(1+exp( - z(alpha)/w * (x-m) ) ),

    where z(alpha) = 2*ln(1/alpha -1). This allows m to be interpreted as the 75% threshold and w as the
    width of the interval in which F(x;m,w) rises from alpha to 1-alpha. A typical choice for alpha is 0.1.
logistic + linear
    This parameterization corresponds to the classical parameterization used in the literature about
    generalized linear models. Here, the psychometric function is modeled as

    F ( x; a, b ) = 1/(1+exp( - (a*x + b) ) ).

    This parameterization does not allow a psychophysically meaningful interpretation of the parameters.

Cumulative Gaussian
...................

The cumulative gaussian is obtained by combining the gauss sigmoid with one of the linear cores (ab,mw,linear).
The parameterizations are precisely the same as for the logistic function with one exception:
The scaling factor z(alpha) for the mw parameterization is z(alpha) = invPhi(1-alpha)-invPhi(alpha), where invPhi
is the inverse of the the cumulative gaussian.

Cumulative Gumbel
.................

Also for the cumulative Gumbel sigmoids, the parameterizations are similar to the logistic function. However,
the Gumbel distribution is skewed. This implies that the alpha parameter of the ab parameterization can
*not* be interpreted as a 75% threshold. For the mw parameterization this is solved in a different way.
The lgumbel + mw function is parameterized as follows:

F ( x; m, w ) = 1-exp(-exp( (z(alpha)-z(1-alpha))/w * (x-m) + z(0.5) ) ),

where z(alpha) = ln(-ln(alpha)).

Weibull
.......

There are a number of ways to parameterize the Weibull function. 

exp + poly
    The classical way is probably

    F ( x; alpha, beta ) = 1-exp ( - (x/alpha)^beta ),

    which is implemented using the combination of an exp-sigmoid and a poly-core.
gumbel + weibull
    The Weibull function is equivalent to a Gumbel sigmoid on logarithmic coordinates. Thus,
    [Kuss_et_al_2005]_ suggested a parameterization in terms of the 75% threshold m and the slope
    at the threshold s. This results in the following equivalent form

    F ( x; m, s ) = 1-exp(-exp( 2*s*m/ln(2) * (ln(x) - ln(m)) + ln(ln(2)) )).

gumbel + log
    As the Weibull is a Gumbel fitted on log coordinates, a Weibull can also be obtained
    using a gumbel sigmoid and the log-core, which results in the following parameterization

    F ( x; a, b ) = 1-exp(-exp( a*ln(x) + b ) ).



References
==========

.. [Green_and_Swets_1966] Green, DM and Swets, JA (1966): Signal Detection Theory and
    Psychophysics. New York: Wiley.
.. [Graham_1989] Graham, NVS (1989): Visual Pattern Analyzers. New York: Oxford University.
.. [Kuss_et_al_2005] Kuss, M and Jäkel, F and Wichmann, FA: Bayesian inference for psychometric functions
    Journal of Vision, 5, 478-492.
